# CLACP-App-FYP

<h1>Description</h1>
    The Crime Law Awareness and Consultancy Portal (CLACP) represents an entirely new and innovative product in the realm of legal technology. As the first of its kind, CLACP is not a successor to an existing application or the next version of a mature system. Rather, it emerges as a establishing solution to address the increasing need for enhanced crime law awareness and accessibility in Pakistan. Positioned at the joining of legal information, communication technology, and citizen empowerment, CLACP stands alone as a groundbreaking initiative to bridge the informational gap between citizens and the complex legal landscape defined by the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC). This unique product is conceived to be a catalyst for legal awareness and consultation, setting the stage for a more informed and legally empowered society.
<h2>Scope</h2>
The CLACP (Crime Law Awareness and Consultancy Portal) project includes a comprehensive range of functionalities aimed at addressing crime Law awareness and accessibility issues in Pakistan. The system will provide an extensive database of Pakistan Penal Code (PPC) laws for their awareness. System will provide both English and Urdu language options for user’s understandability.
<h3>Citizens</h3> will be able to: register and manage their account, get awareness about crime laws and can search about specific law through section id, keyword, or law name. Citizens will also be able to search Lawyer by their name or their assigned id’s and get consultancy on crime laws through various communication options provided by the system according to the schedule available from lawyer, get notified for their booked appointments, report to admin for any misbehavior or misguidance by the lawyers and can provide feedback for transparency. 
<h3>Lawyers</h3> registered and verified only by Punjab Bar Council: will be able to create and manage their account, accept and schedule appointment provide legal advice to the clients through multiple communication options provided by the system against their consultancy fee using multiple payment gateways integrated by the system, can engage with multiple clients according to their scheduled time, and maintain their reputation on transparent feed-backs to get more clients. 
<h3>Admin</h3> will be able to: verify the lawyer against their license number and Bar Council registration, admin will also verify the client through OTP against client’s provided number, will manage overall system responsibilities included actions like banning lawyers from the system against received reports proving allegations, ensuring data integrity, user access control, and system security.

